[Music]
40% that's how much of the food you buy
ends up getting tossed right in the
garbage
40% the culprit improper storage so
let's see what conditions best protect
some common products in your kitchen and
save you some money and if you have some
examples of your own post them down
below number 1 Tomatoes farmers will
tell you that Tomatoes get even more
flavorful and fragrant if you keep them
at room temperature about 70 degrees
Fahrenheit or above if you put them in
the fridge they lose their best
qualities and the taste changes it's
much better to buy small portions of
fresh tomatoes you can eat within a day
if you've grown them yourself keep them
on the low shelf of the fridge also ripe
tomatoes make other fruits and veggies
ripen faster or spoil if they're ripe
already if you don't want black bananas
or rotten cherries store the products
separately numbers 2 & 3 onion and
garlic these vegetables prefer warmer
temperatures they're also afraid of
light and won't like being kept in a
sunlit kitchen you better put them in a
cool dark pantry or cellar they also
shouldn't be kept in the fridge cold and
condensation can rot them for potatoes
french fries or any fried potatoes for
that matter contain a substance that can
become toxic when kept in low
temperatures so don't keep fries in the
fridge as for raw potatoes they like a
dark dry and spacious place potatoes put
off carbon dioxide so if you keep them
in a spot with poor ventilation they'll
start to wrinkle number 5 mushrooms now
if you're gonna cook them later
just put mushrooms in a paper bag and
keep them in the fridge if you need to
store them longer first wash them then
dry or freeze them it's not good to
store fresh mushrooms in the fridge
longer than 1 day especially if you've
picked them yourself
though right or become rub
six fresh greens and herbs a lot of
people put greens in a jar of water like
you would add bouquet of flowers it
sounds like a useful tip but this is
actually a bad idea
fresh herbs will last longer if you put
them in a paper bag and store it in the
fridge the paper will absorb extra
moisture and won't let the Greens wilt 7
& 8 chill poultry and meat it's better
to buy them right before cooking if they
won't be in your dinner tonight
then freeze meat and poultry immediately
if you need to store them in the fridge
first wrap them in 2 to 3 layers of
plastic film and put them on the lowest
shelf don't forget that meat is a
possible source of different infectious
bacteria it can be stored in the fridge
no longer than 2 days while it's ok to
keep in the freezer for 4 to 5 months
9 and 10 bananas and other tropical
fruit if you remember how they're grown
you'll understand that the cold of the
fridge won't do tropical fruits any good
to slow the ripening process down and
keep the skin from darkening put each
fruit in a separate paper bag or wrap it
in plastic film then keep them in a cool
dark place number 11
honey honey should be stored in a glass
ceramic or metal container the ideal
place is dark and dry so a shelf will do
just fine as long as the cabinet has a
door if you keep honey where sunlight
can reach it it'll lose its
antibacterial properties honey can
absorb fragrances so it should be stored
away from garlic onion and other
infamously odorous products if you make
your own honey don't use an old pickle
jar for the same reason 12 eggs
contrary to what refrigerator
manufacturers seem to think it's not a
good idea to store eggs in the fridge
door each time you open it the eggs get
exposed to lower temperatures of the air
that constant change makes them spoil
faster keep them in the carton and store
them on the upper shelves further back
in the fridge the carton prevents them
from absorbing odors through their
shells and the back of the fridge won't
be as vulnerable to temperature
fluctuations 13 14 and 15 milk yogurt
and hard cheese milk and yogurt also
shouldn't be kept in the fridge door
they spoil there faster than anywhere
else the best place for their storage is
the middle shelf the less milk or yogurt
is left in the package
the farther to the back wall of the
fridge it should be since it's colder
there as for your cheese wrap it in a
plastic film or foil to prevent mold
from growing this will also keep the
product from drying out 16 and 17 grapes
and berries the best place for grapes is
a ventilated plastic bag like the one
they're kept and sold in at the store
the same is true for other berries but
before you put them in the plastic bag
or fridge be sure to dry them off with a
paper towel getting rid of that moisture
will prevent fermentation and rot if you
want to save cherries don't remove and
throw away the stems otherwise the
berries will start leaking juice and
spoil sooner 18 apples apples shouldn't
be refrigerated they're also pretty
finicky so keep different kinds of
apples separate from each other and put
them in the pantry or cellar they'll
stay fresh through fall and winter if
you put them in boxes full of wood
shavings and onion skins they'll absorb
moisture so the fruit won't rot if
you've started eating an apple but want
to finish it later dab the rest of the
fruit with a few drops of lemon juice
and put it in the fridge it won't get
dark or spoiled 19 vegetable oil don't
store it in the fridge that'll ruin its
taste oil should be kept in a dark place
at room temperature if you can't find a
dark place in your kitchen
wrap it in foil 20 karats young carrots
can be kept in a cool dark place where
they'll stay fresh and crisp for a long
time you can even store them like that
for the whole winter it's a bad idea to
store carrots in the fridge especially
close to Tomatoes or other fruit because
they'll get bitter 21 and 22 greens and
flour the first thing you need to do
after picking up some flour or oats is
to take them out of the packaging
they're sold in transfer them to a glass
or ceramic container with a tight lid to
keep bugs out and prolong their
freshness you can put them in the fridge
or another cool dry place rice can be
kept in such conditions for years
buckwheat for three years and oats for
about six months 23 watermelon
watermelon and regular melon will keep
better if you store it at room
temperature not to mention it's better
for you that way too when stored in the
fridge melons lose the antioxidants that
are found in them naturally if you want
to serve them cold then just put them in
the fridge for 15 minutes 24 bread bread
should be stored in a plastic ventilated
bag a cloth or a paper bag where it can
stay soft for 5 days if you've bought a
lot of bread and need to leave for a
couple of days you can put it in the
fridge
low temperatures save it from mold and
it'll stay fresh and tasty 25 pet food
yes pet food can go bad and it should be
thrown away when it does so let's try to
prevent that waste by storing it
properly keep dog or cat kibble in a
closed container in a cool dry place
if you've opened canned food keep it in
the fridge and use it within two days 26
and 27 coffee and tea store tea and
coffee in a dark dry place in a
non-transparent container keep them away
from food with a strong odor avoid damp
and sunlit places and don't store tea
and coffee close to the sources of
warmth such as a microwave or oven 28
sure
the main enemy of sugar is humidity
dampness will cause clumps to appear
that's why it's important to store sugar
both white and brown in an airtight
container in a dry place sugar absorbs
odors so make sure the container you
store it in doesn't smell of anything 29
chocalate Oh chocolate chocolate should
be stored at room temperature in a dry
place that's not exposed to sunlight
because well obviously it melts if you
put it in the fridge a white film will
appear on it no worries though that's
just cacao butter 30 leftovers it's a
big mistake to make soup or hamburgers
for a whole week unless you're going to
freeze them the longest time leftovers
can be stored in the fridge is five days
but it's not a universal rule if there's
Mayo in a meal it should be eaten in two
days max meals containing milk eggs and
yogurt can't be eaten after the
expiration date of any of these
ingredients it also works only if you've
put the meals in the fridge no later
than two hours after cooking so there
you have it if you have other tips
please share them below hey if you
learned something new today then give
the video a like and share with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]